README.md, before:

A full-stack web application for downloading high-quality music from Tidal with intelligent playlist generation via ListenBrainz/Troi integration. Features automatic metadata tagging, lyrics fetching, and organized file management.

Heavy inspired from https://github.com/uimaxbai/tidal-ui and using https://github.com/sachinsenal0x64/hifi

> [!IMPORTANT]
>
> # Project Terms

- We do not encourage piracy. This project is made purely for educational and personal use.
  If you somehow download copyrighted content, you are solely responsible for complying with the relevant laws in your country.

- The Tidaloader Project assumes no responsibility for any misuse or legal violations arising from the use of this project.

- This project does not claim ownership of any music or audio content. All rights remain with their respective copyright holders. Users are encouraged to support artists and rights owners by maintaining a valid Tidal subscription. Tidaloader serves solely as a downloading interface for personal, non-commercial use.

## Features

### Core Functionality

- **Tidal Music Downloads**: Download tracks in FLAC (lossless/hi-res), MP3 (128kbps/256kbps), or AAC (320kbps/96kbps) formats
- **Smart Playlist Generation**: Generate personalized playlists using ListenBrainz listening history via Troi
- **Automatic Organization**: Files organized by Artist/Album with proper track numbering
- **Rich Metadata**: Automatic ID3 tags, album artwork, and MusicBrainz IDs
- **Lyrics Integration**: Synced (.lrc) and plain text (.txt) lyrics via LrcLib API
- **Download Queue Management**: Concurrent downloads with progress tracking
- **Endpoint Failover**: Automatic rotation across multiple Tidal API endpoints

### User Interface

- **Modern Web UI**: Clean, responsive Preact-based interface
- **Real-time Progress**: Live download progress with percentage indicators
- **Search Capabilities**: Search tracks, albums, and artists
- **Batch Operations**: Download entire albums or artist discographies
- **Quality Selection**: Choose audio quality per download
- **Authentication**: Secure login with credential management

### Audio Quality Options

- **Hi-Res FLAC** (`HI_RES_LOSSLESS`): Up to 24-bit/192kHz direct from Tidal
- **Lossless FLAC** (`LOSSLESS`): 16-bit/44.1kHz archival quality
- **MP3 256kbps / 128kbps** (`MP3_256`, `MP3_128`): Transcoded using ffmpeg/libmp3lame
- **AAC 320kbps / 96kbps** (`HIGH`, `LOW`): Direct AAC streams from Tidal

## Project Structure

```
tidaloader/
├── backend/
│   ├── api/
│   │   ├── __init__.py
│   │   ├── auth.py           # Authentication middleware
│   │   └── main.py           # FastAPI application
│   ├── downloads/            # Downloaded music files
│   ├── .env                  # Environment configuration
│   ├── .env.example          # Example configuration
│   ├── config.py             # Configuration loader
│   ├── lyrics_client.py      # LrcLib API client
│   ├── requirements.txt      # Python dependencies
│   ├── tidal_client.py       # Tidal API client
│   └── troi_integration.py   # Troi playlist generator
├── frontend/
│   ├── public/
│   ├── src/
│   │   ├── api/              # API client
│   │   ├── components/       # UI components
│   │   ├── stores/           # State management (Zustand)
│   │   ├── utils/            # Utilities
│   │   ├── app.jsx           # Main app component
│   │   ├── main.jsx          # Entry point
│   │   └── style.css         # Tailwind styles
│   ├── index.html
│   ├── package.json
│   ├── tailwind.config.js
│   └── vite.config.js
├── automate-troi-download.py  # Standalone CLI tool
└── api_endpoints.json          # Tidal API endpoint list
```

## Prerequisites

### Common Requirements

- Python 3.8+
- Node.js 16+ and npm
- Git
- ffmpeg 4.0+ (for MP3 transcoding support)

### Platform-Specific

#### Windows

- PowerShell or Command Prompt
- Windows 10/11

#### Linux

- Bash shell
- systemd (optional, for service management)

#### Android/Termux

- Termux app from F-Droid
- Termux:Boot (optional, for auto-start)

## Installation

## Docker Installation (Recommended)

The easiest way to run Tidaloader is using Docker with our prebuilt image.

### Prerequisites

- Docker Desktop (Windows/Mac) or Docker Engine (Linux)
- Docker Compose (included with Docker Desktop)

### Quick Start with Prebuilt Image

1. **Create a docker-compose.yml file**

   ```yaml
   services:
     tidaloader:
       image: ghcr.io/rayz3r0/tidaloader:latest
       container_name: tidaloader
       ports:
         - "8001:8001"
       environment:
         - MUSIC_DIR=${MUSIC_DIR:-/music}
         - AUTH_USERNAME=${AUTH_USERNAME:-admin}
         - AUTH_PASSWORD=${AUTH_PASSWORD:-changeme}
       volumes:
         - ${MUSIC_DIR_HOST:-./music}:/music
       restart: unless-stopped
       healthcheck:
         test: ["CMD", "curl", "-f", "http://localhost:8001/api/health"]
         interval: 30s
         timeout: 10s
         retries: 3
         start_period: 40s
   ```

2. **Create environment file** (optional)

   Create a `.env` file in the same directory:

   ```env
   AUTH_USERNAME=admin
   AUTH_PASSWORD=your-secure-password
   MUSIC_DIR_HOST=./music  # or C:/Users/YourName/Music on Windows
   ```

3. **Start the application**

   ```bash
   docker-compose up -d
   ```

4. **Access the application**

   Open your browser to `http://localhost:8001`

### Alternative: Build from Source

If you prefer to build the image yourself:

1. **Clone the repository**

   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/RayZ3R0/tidaloader.git
   cd tidaloader
   ```

2. **Update docker-compose.yml**

   ```yaml
   services:
     tidaloader:
       build: . # or build: https://github.com/RayZ3R0/tidaloader.git
       container_name: tidaloader
       # ... rest of configuration same as above
   ```

3. **Start the application**

   ```bash
   docker-compose up -d --build
   ```

### Docker Commands

**View logs:**

```bash
docker-compose logs -f
```

**Stop the application:**

```bash
docker-compose down
```

**Update to latest version:**

```bash
docker-compose pull
docker-compose up -d
```

### Configuration

**Windows path example:**

```env
MUSIC_DIR_HOST=C:/Users/YourName/Music
```

**Linux/Mac path example:**

```env
MUSIC_DIR_HOST=/home/yourname/Music
```

**Default (current directory):**

```env
MUSIC_DIR_HOST=./music
```

### Troubleshooting

**View logs:**

```bash
docker-compose logs -f
```

**Permission issues (Linux/Mac):**

```bash
sudo chown -R $(id -u):$(id -g) ./music
```

**Permission issues (Windows):**

```powershell
icacls .\music /grant Everyone:F /T
```

**Reset everything:**

```bash
docker-compose down -v
docker-compose pull
docker-compose up -d
```

### Windows Setup

1. **Clone the repository**

   ```powershell
   git clone https://github.com/RayZ3R0/tidaloader.git
   cd tidaloader
   ```

2. **Backend setup**

   ```powershell
   cd backend
   python -m venv venv
   .\venv\Scripts\Activate.ps1
   pip install -r requirements.txt
   ```

3. **Configure environment**

   ```powershell
   cp .env.example .env
   ```

   Edit .env and set your configuration:

   ```env
   MUSIC_DIR=C:\Users\YourName\Music
   AUTH_USERNAME=your_username
   AUTH_PASSWORD=your_secure_password
   ```

4. **Frontend setup**

   ```powershell
   cd ..\frontend
   npm install
   npm run build
   ```

5. **Start the server**

   ```powershell
   cd ..\backend
   .\start.ps1
   ```

6. **Access the application**

   Open your browser to `http://localhost:8001`

### Linux Setup

1. **Clone the repository**

   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/RayZ3R0/tidaloader.git
   cd tidaloader
   ```

2. **Backend setup**

   ```bash
   cd backend
   python3 -m venv venv
   source venv/bin/activate
   pip install -r requirements.txt
   ```

3. **Configure environment**

   ```bash
   cp .env.example .env
   nano .env  # or use your preferred editor
   ```

   Edit .env:

   ```env
   MUSIC_DIR=/home/yourname/Music
   AUTH_USERNAME=your_username
   AUTH_PASSWORD=your_secure_password
   ```

4. **Frontend setup**

   ```bash
   cd ../frontend
   npm install
   npm run build
   ```

5. **Start the server**

   ```bash
   cd ../backend
   source venv/bin/activate
   python -m uvicorn api.main:app --host 0.0.0.0 --port 8001
   ```

6. **Access the application**

   Open your browser to `http://localhost:8001`

### Android/Termux Setup

1. **Install Termux**

   Download from F-Droid: https://f-droid.org/en/packages/com.termux/

2. **Run setup script**

   ```bash
   curl -O https://raw.githubusercontent.com/RayZ3R0/tidaloader/main/backend/termux-setup.sh
   bash termux-setup.sh
   ```

3. **Configure environment**

   ```bash
   cd ~/tidaloader/backend
   nano .env
   ```

   The default configuration uses:

   ```env
   MUSIC_DIR=/data/data/com.termux/files/home/music/tidal-downloads
   ```

4. **Start the service**

   ```bash
   cd ~/tidaloader
   ./start-service.sh
   ```

5. **Optional: Auto-start on boot**

   ```bash
   ./install-termux-service.sh
   ```

6. **Access the application**

   On your device: `http://localhost:8001`

   From network: `http://[device-ip]:8001`

## Configuration

### Environment Variables

All configuration is done via .env:

```env
# Music directory - where files will be downloaded
MUSIC_DIR=/path/to/music

# Authentication credentials
AUTH_USERNAME=admin
AUTH_PASSWORD=your-secure-password-here
```

### Download Organization

Files are automatically organized in the following structure:

```
MUSIC_DIR/
└── Artist Name/
    └── Album Name/
        ├── 01 - Track Title.flac
        ├── 01 - Track Title.lrc  (synced lyrics if available)
        ├── 02 - Track Title.flac
        ├── 02 - Track Title.txt  (plain lyrics if available)
        └── ...
```

### Quality Settings

Available quality options (configurable per download):

- `HI_RES_LOSSLESS`: Up to 24-bit/192kHz FLAC
- `LOSSLESS`: 16-bit/44.1kHz FLAC (default)
- `HIGH`: 320kbps AAC
- `LOW`: 96kbps AAC

## Usage

### Web Interface

1. **Login**

   Use the credentials you set in .env

2. **Search for Music**

   - Switch to "Search" tab
   - Search by track, album, or artist
   - Select tracks to download
   - Add to queue

3. **Generate Troi Playlists**

   - Switch to "Troi Playlist" tab
   - Enter your ListenBrainz username
   - Choose "Daily Jams" or "Periodic Jams"
   - Review generated tracks
   - Download selected tracks

4. **Manage Downloads**

   - View queue in the download popout (bottom-right)
   - Start/pause downloads
   - Monitor progress
   - Review completed and failed downloads

### Command-Line Tool

The standalone CLI tool automate-troi-download.py can be used independently:

```bash
# Activate backend virtual environment
cd backend
source venv/bin/activate  # Linux/Mac
# or
.\venv\Scripts\Activate.ps1  # Windows

# Run the tool
cd ..
python automate-troi-download.py your-listenbrainz-username

# Options
python automate-troi-download.py --help
```

Options:

- `--download-dir PATH`: Specify download directory (default: ./downloads)
- `--no-debug`: Disable debug output
- `--no-test-mode`: Download all tracks (default: first 5 only)

## API Endpoints

The backend provides a REST API documented at `http://localhost:8001/docs` (FastAPI Swagger UI).

### Public Endpoints

- `GET /api`: API status
- `GET /api/health`: Health check

### Protected Endpoints (require authentication)

- `POST /api/troi/generate`: Generate Troi playlist
- `GET /api/search/tracks`: Search tracks
- `GET /api/search/albums`: Search albums
- `GET /api/search/artists`: Search artists
- `GET /api/album/{album_id}/tracks`: Get album tracks
- `GET /api/artist/{artist_id}`: Get artist details
- `POST /api/download/track`: Download a track
- `GET /api/download/progress/{track_id}`: Stream download progress

## Development

### Running in Development Mode

**Backend:**

```bash
cd backend
source venv/bin/activate
python -m uvicorn api.main:app --reload --host 0.0.0.0 --port 8001
```

**Frontend:**

```bash
cd frontend
npm run dev
```

The frontend dev server runs on `http://localhost:5173` and proxies API requests to the backend.

### Project Dependencies

**Backend** (`backend/requirements.txt`):

- fastapi: Web framework
- uvicorn: ASGI server
- aiohttp: Async HTTP client
- mutagen: Audio metadata handling
- lrclibapi: Lyrics fetching
- python-jose: JWT authentication
- passlib: Password hashing
- pydantic: Data validation

**Frontend** (`frontend/package.json`):

- preact: Lightweight React alternative
- zustand: State management
- tailwindcss: Utility-first CSS
- vite: Build tool

## Troubleshooting

### Backend won't start

- Ensure Python virtual environment is activated
- Check .env file exists and is properly configured
- Verify all dependencies are installed: `pip install -r requirements.txt`

### Frontend build fails

- Delete `node_modules` and `package-lock.json`
- Run `npm install` again
- Ensure Node.js version is 16+

### Downloads fail

- Check internet connection
- Verify Tidal API endpoints are accessible
- Review backend logs for specific errors
- Try different quality settings

### Authentication errors

- Verify `AUTH_USERNAME` and `AUTH_PASSWORD` in .env
- Clear browser cache and cookies
- Check backend logs for authentication failures

### Missing metadata/lyrics

- LrcLib API may not have lyrics for all tracks
- Some tracks may have incomplete Tidal metadata
- Album artwork requires internet access during download

## Advanced Configuration

### Adding Custom Tidal Endpoints

Edit `api_endpoints.json`:

```json
{
  "endpoints": [
    {
      "name": "custom-endpoint",
      "url": "https://your-endpoint.example.com",
      "priority": 1
    }
  ]
}
```

Lower priority numbers are tried first.

### Service Management (Linux)

Create systemd service at `/etc/systemd/system/tidaloader.service`:

```ini
[Unit]
Description=Tidaloader Tidal Downloader
After=network.target

[Service]
Type=simple
User=youruser
WorkingDirectory=/path/to/tidaloader/backend
Environment="PATH=/path/to/tidaloader/backend/venv/bin"
ExecStart=/path/to/tidaloader/backend/venv/bin/python -m uvicorn api.main:app --host 0.0.0.0 --port 8001

[Install]
WantedBy=multi-user.target
```

Enable and start:

```bash
sudo systemctl enable tidaloader
sudo systemctl start tidaloader
```

## Credits

- Tidal API endpoints via community projects
- Lyrics from LrcLib API
- Troi playlist generation via ListenBrainz
- MusicBrainz metadata integration

## License

This project is for educational purposes only. Ensure you comply with Tidal's Terms of Service and respect copyright laws in your jurisdiction.

## Contributing

Contributions are welcome! Please:

1. Fork the repository
2. Create a feature branch
3. Make your changes
4. Submit a pull request

## Support

For issues, questions, or feature requests, please open an issue on GitHub.

Commit message:

feat: Implement dynamic API endpoint fetching with caching and fallback, and add search and extraction logging.

README.md, after:

A full-stack web application for downloading high-quality music from Tidal with intelligent playlist generation via ListenBrainz/Troi integration. Features automatic metadata tagging, lyrics fetching, and organized file management.

Heavy inspired from https://github.com/uimaxbai/tidal-ui and using https://github.com/sachinsenal0x64/hifi

> [!IMPORTANT]
>
> # Project Terms

- We do not encourage piracy. This project is made purely for educational and personal use.
  If you somehow download copyrighted content, you are solely responsible for complying with the relevant laws in your country.

- The Tidaloader Project assumes no responsibility for any misuse or legal violations arising from the use of this project.

- This project does not claim ownership of any music or audio content. All rights remain with their respective copyright holders. Users are encouraged to support artists and rights owners by maintaining a valid Tidal subscription. Tidaloader serves solely as a downloading interface for personal, non-commercial use.

## Features

### Core Functionality

- **Tidal Music Downloads**: Download tracks in FLAC (lossless/hi-res), MP3 (128kbps/256kbps), or AAC (320kbps/96kbps) formats
- **Smart Playlist Generation**: Generate personalized playlists using ListenBrainz listening history via Troi
- **Automatic Organization**: Files organized by Artist/Album with proper track numbering
- **Rich Metadata**: Automatic ID3 tags, album artwork, and MusicBrainz IDs
- **Lyrics Integration**: Synced (.lrc) and plain text (.txt) lyrics via LrcLib API
- **Download Queue Management**: Concurrent downloads with progress tracking
- **Endpoint Failover**: Automatic rotation across multiple Tidal API endpoints

### User Interface

- **Modern Web UI**: Clean, responsive Preact-based interface
- **Real-time Progress**: Live download progress with percentage indicators
- **Search Capabilities**: Search tracks, albums, and artists
- **Batch Operations**: Download entire albums or artist discographies
- **Quality Selection**: Choose audio quality per download
- **Authentication**: Secure login with credential management

### Audio Quality Options

- **Hi-Res FLAC** (`HI_RES_LOSSLESS`): Up to 24-bit/192kHz direct from Tidal
- **Lossless FLAC** (`LOSSLESS`): 16-bit/44.1kHz archival quality
- **MP3 256kbps / 128kbps** (`MP3_256`, `MP3_128`): Transcoded using ffmpeg/libmp3lame
- **AAC 320kbps / 96kbps** (`HIGH`, `LOW`): Direct AAC streams from Tidal

## Project Structure

```
tidaloader/
├── backend/
│   ├── api/
│   │   ├── __init__.py
│   │   ├── auth.py           # Authentication middleware
│   │   └── main.py           # FastAPI application
│   ├── downloads/            # Downloaded music files
│   ├── .env                  # Environment configuration
│   ├── .env.example          # Example configuration
│   ├── config.py             # Configuration loader
│   ├── lyrics_client.py      # LrcLib API client
│   ├── requirements.txt      # Python dependencies
│   ├── tidal_client.py       # Tidal API client
│   └── troi_integration.py   # Troi playlist generator
├── frontend/
│   ├── public/
│   ├── src/
│   │   ├── api/              # API client
│   │   ├── components/       # UI components
│   │   ├── stores/           # State management (Zustand)
│   │   ├── utils/            # Utilities
│   │   ├── app.jsx           # Main app component
│   │   ├── main.jsx          # Entry point
│   │   └── style.css         # Tailwind styles
│   ├── index.html
│   ├── package.json
│   ├── tailwind.config.js
│   └── vite.config.js
├── automate-troi-download.py  # Standalone CLI tool
└── README.md
```

## Prerequisites

### Common Requirements

- Python 3.8+
- Node.js 16+ and npm
- Git
- ffmpeg 4.0+ (for MP3 transcoding support)

### Platform-Specific

#### Windows

- PowerShell or Command Prompt
- Windows 10/11

#### Linux

- Bash shell
- systemd (optional, for service management)

#### Android/Termux

- Termux app from F-Droid
- Termux:Boot (optional, for auto-start)

## Installation

## Docker Installation (Recommended)

The easiest way to run Tidaloader is using Docker with our prebuilt image.

### Prerequisites

- Docker Desktop (Windows/Mac) or Docker Engine (Linux)
- Docker Compose (included with Docker Desktop)

### Quick Start with Prebuilt Image

1. **Create a docker-compose.yml file**

   ```yaml
   services:
     tidaloader:
       image: ghcr.io/rayz3r0/tidaloader:latest
       container_name: tidaloader
       ports:
         - "8001:8001"
       environment:
         - MUSIC_DIR=${MUSIC_DIR:-/music}
         - AUTH_USERNAME=${AUTH_USERNAME:-admin}
         - AUTH_PASSWORD=${AUTH_PASSWORD:-changeme}
       volumes:
         - ${MUSIC_DIR_HOST:-./music}:/music
       restart: unless-stopped
       healthcheck:
         test: ["CMD", "curl", "-f", "http://localhost:8001/api/health"]
         interval: 30s
         timeout: 10s
         retries: 3
         start_period: 40s
   ```

2. **Create environment file** (optional)

   Create a `.env` file in the same directory:

   ```env
   AUTH_USERNAME=admin
   AUTH_PASSWORD=your-secure-password
   MUSIC_DIR_HOST=./music  # or C:/Users/YourName/Music on Windows
   ```

3. **Start the application**

   ```bash
   docker-compose up -d
   ```

4. **Access the application**

   Open your browser to `http://localhost:8001`

### Alternative: Build from Source

If you prefer to build the image yourself:

1. **Clone the repository**

   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/RayZ3R0/tidaloader.git
   cd tidaloader
   ```

2. **Update docker-compose.yml**

   ```yaml
   services:
     tidaloader:
       build: . # or build: https://github.com/RayZ3R0/tidaloader.git
       container_name: tidaloader
       # ... rest of configuration same as above
   ```

3. **Start the application**

   ```bash
   docker-compose up -d --build
   ```

### Docker Commands

**View logs:**

```bash
docker-compose logs -f
```

**Stop the application:**

```bash
docker-compose down
```

**Update to latest version:**

```bash
docker-compose pull
docker-compose up -d
```

### Configuration

**Windows path example:**

```env
MUSIC_DIR_HOST=C:/Users/YourName/Music
```

**Linux/Mac path example:**

```env
MUSIC_DIR_HOST=/home/yourname/Music
```

**Default (current directory):**

```env
MUSIC_DIR_HOST=./music
```

### Troubleshooting

**View logs:**

```bash
docker-compose logs -f
```

**Permission issues (Linux/Mac):**

```bash
sudo chown -R $(id -u):$(id -g) ./music
```

**Permission issues (Windows):**

```powershell
icacls .\music /grant Everyone:F /T
```

**Reset everything:**

```bash
docker-compose down -v
docker-compose pull
docker-compose up -d
```

### Windows Setup

1. **Clone the repository**

   ```powershell
   git clone https://github.com/RayZ3R0/tidaloader.git
   cd tidaloader
   ```

2. **Backend setup**

   ```powershell
   cd backend
   python -m venv venv
   .\venv\Scripts\Activate.ps1
   pip install -r requirements.txt
   ```

3. **Configure environment**

   ```powershell
   cp .env.example .env
   ```

   Edit .env and set your configuration:

   ```env
   MUSIC_DIR=C:\Users\YourName\Music
   AUTH_USERNAME=your_username
   AUTH_PASSWORD=your_secure_password
   ```

4. **Frontend setup**

   ```powershell
   cd ..\frontend
   npm install
   npm run build
   ```

5. **Start the server**

   ```powershell
   cd ..\backend
   .\start.ps1
   ```

6. **Access the application**

   Open your browser to `http://localhost:8001`

### Linux Setup

1. **Clone the repository**

   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/RayZ3R0/tidaloader.git
   cd tidaloader
   ```

2. **Backend setup**

   ```bash
   cd backend
   python3 -m venv venv
   source venv/bin/activate
   pip install -r requirements.txt
   ```

3. **Configure environment**

   ```bash
   cp .env.example .env
   nano .env  # or use your preferred editor
   ```

   Edit .env:

   ```env
   MUSIC_DIR=/home/yourname/Music
   AUTH_USERNAME=your_username
   AUTH_PASSWORD=your_secure_password
   ```

4. **Frontend setup**

   ```bash
   cd ../frontend
   npm install
   npm run build
   ```

5. **Start the server**

   ```bash
   cd ../backend
   source venv/bin/activate
   python -m uvicorn api.main:app --host 0.0.0.0 --port 8001
   ```

6. **Access the application**

   Open your browser to `http://localhost:8001`

### Android/Termux Setup

1. **Install Termux**

   Download from F-Droid: https://f-droid.org/en/packages/com.termux/

2. **Run setup script**

   ```bash
   curl -O https://raw.githubusercontent.com/RayZ3R0/tidaloader/main/backend/termux-setup.sh
   bash termux-setup.sh
   ```

3. **Configure environment**

   ```bash
   cd ~/tidaloader/backend
   nano .env
   ```

   The default configuration uses:

   ```env
   MUSIC_DIR=/data/data/com.termux/files/home/music/tidal-downloads
   ```

4. **Start the service**

   ```bash
   cd ~/tidaloader
   ./start-service.sh
   ```

5. **Optional: Auto-start on boot**

   ```bash
   ./install-termux-service.sh
   ```

6. **Access the application**

   On your device: `http://localhost:8001`

   From network: `http://[device-ip]:8001`

## Configuration

### Environment Variables

All configuration is done via .env:

```env
# Music directory - where files will be downloaded
MUSIC_DIR=/path/to/music

# Authentication credentials
AUTH_USERNAME=admin
AUTH_PASSWORD=your-secure-password-here
```

### Download Organization

Files are automatically organized in the following structure:

```
MUSIC_DIR/
└── Artist Name/
    └── Album Name/
        ├── 01 - Track Title.flac
        ├── 01 - Track Title.lrc  (synced lyrics if available)
        ├── 02 - Track Title.flac
        ├── 02 - Track Title.txt  (plain lyrics if available)
        └── ...
```

### Quality Settings

Available quality options (configurable per download):

- `HI_RES_LOSSLESS`: Up to 24-bit/192kHz FLAC
- `LOSSLESS`: 16-bit/44.1kHz FLAC (default)
- `HIGH`: 320kbps AAC
- `LOW`: 96kbps AAC

## Usage

### Web Interface

1. **Login**

   Use the credentials you set in .env

2. **Search for Music**

   - Switch to "Search" tab
   - Search by track, album, or artist
   - Select tracks to download
   - Add to queue

3. **Generate Troi Playlists**

   - Switch to "Troi Playlist" tab
   - Enter your ListenBrainz username
   - Choose "Daily Jams" or "Periodic Jams"
   - Review generated tracks
   - Download selected tracks

4. **Manage Downloads**

   - View queue in the download popout (bottom-right)
   - Start/pause downloads
   - Monitor progress
   - Review completed and failed downloads

### Command-Line Tool

The standalone CLI tool automate-troi-download.py can be used independently:

```bash
# Activate backend virtual environment
cd backend
source venv/bin/activate  # Linux/Mac
# or
.\venv\Scripts\Activate.ps1  # Windows

# Run the tool
cd ..
python automate-troi-download.py your-listenbrainz-username

# Options
python automate-troi-download.py --help
```

Options:

- `--download-dir PATH`: Specify download directory (default: ./downloads)
- `--no-debug`: Disable debug output
- `--no-test-mode`: Download all tracks (default: first 5 only)

## API Endpoints

The backend provides a REST API documented at `http://localhost:8001/docs` (FastAPI Swagger UI).

### Public Endpoints

- `GET /api`: API status
- `GET /api/health`: Health check

### Protected Endpoints (require authentication)

- `POST /api/troi/generate`: Generate Troi playlist
- `GET /api/search/tracks`: Search tracks
- `GET /api/search/albums`: Search albums
- `GET /api/search/artists`: Search artists
- `GET /api/album/{album_id}/tracks`: Get album tracks
- `GET /api/artist/{artist_id}`: Get artist details
- `POST /api/download/track`: Download a track
- `GET /api/download/progress/{track_id}`: Stream download progress

## Development

### Running in Development Mode

**Backend:**

```bash
cd backend
source venv/bin/activate
python -m uvicorn api.main:app --reload --host 0.0.0.0 --port 8001
```

**Frontend:**

```bash
cd frontend
npm run dev
```

The frontend dev server runs on `http://localhost:5173` and proxies API requests to the backend.

### Project Dependencies

**Backend** (`backend/requirements.txt`):

- fastapi: Web framework
- uvicorn: ASGI server
- aiohttp: Async HTTP client
- mutagen: Audio metadata handling
- lrclibapi: Lyrics fetching
- python-jose: JWT authentication
- passlib: Password hashing
- pydantic: Data validation

**Frontend** (`frontend/package.json`):

- preact: Lightweight React alternative
- zustand: State management
- tailwindcss: Utility-first CSS
- vite: Build tool

## Troubleshooting

### Backend won't start

- Ensure Python virtual environment is activated
- Check .env file exists and is properly configured
- Verify all dependencies are installed: `pip install -r requirements.txt`

### Frontend build fails

- Delete `node_modules` and `package-lock.json`
- Run `npm install` again
- Ensure Node.js version is 16+

### Downloads fail

- Check internet connection
- Verify Tidal API endpoints are accessible
- Review backend logs for specific errors
- Try different quality settings

### Authentication errors

- Verify `AUTH_USERNAME` and `AUTH_PASSWORD` in .env
- Clear browser cache and cookies
- Check backend logs for authentication failures

### Missing metadata/lyrics

- LrcLib API may not have lyrics for all tracks
- Some tracks may have incomplete Tidal metadata
- Album artwork requires internet access during download

## Advanced Configuration

### Tidal API Endpoints

Endpoints are automatically fetched from a community-maintained list at startup:
- **Remote source**: `https://raw.githubusercontent.com/EduardPrigoana/hifi-instances/refs/heads/main/instances.json`
- **Caching**: Endpoints are cached for 1 hour (in-memory and on disk)
- **Fallback**: If remote fetch fails, cached endpoints are used
- **Auto-updates**: Cache refreshes automatically every hour

The application intelligently rotates through available endpoints and remembers which endpoint was last successful for each operation type, prioritizing it for future requests.

### Service Management (Linux)

Create systemd service at `/etc/systemd/system/tidaloader.service`:

```ini
[Unit]
Description=Tidaloader Tidal Downloader
After=network.target

[Service]
Type=simple
User=youruser
WorkingDirectory=/path/to/tidaloader/backend
Environment="PATH=/path/to/tidaloader/backend/venv/bin"
ExecStart=/path/to/tidaloader/backend/venv/bin/python -m uvicorn api.main:app --host 0.0.0.0 --port 8001

[Install]
WantedBy=multi-user.target
```

Enable and start:

```bash
sudo systemctl enable tidaloader
sudo systemctl start tidaloader
```

## Credits

- Tidal API endpoints via community projects
- Lyrics from LrcLib API
- Troi playlist generation via ListenBrainz
- MusicBrainz metadata integration

## License

This project is for educational purposes only. Ensure you comply with Tidal's Terms of Service and respect copyright laws in your jurisdiction.

## Contributing

Contributions are welcome! Please:

1. Fork the repository
2. Create a feature branch
3. Make your changes
4. Submit a pull request

## Support

For issues, questions, or feature requests, please open an issue on GitHub.
